Paper: Ethical Analysis
=======================
By Jesus Garcia

What are the ethical aspects posed by this paper?
-------------------------------------------------
Amazon working conditions - "people are being forced to pee in bottles."
Amazon tax history - "they exploit loopholes and tax havens to pay close to
nothing in taxes."
These are the two ethical situations presented in the article.


Outline of the paper: 

Background
----------
What is the news event: Amazon trolling representatives

The Players
-----------
Amazon News (@amazonnews)
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren)
Dave Clark (@davehclark)
Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders)
Rep. Mark Pocan (@repmarkpocan)
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC)

Cognitive Biases
----------------
There are a few biases:
* an acusation of automation bias
  - automated system - law making process
  - non-automated system - amazon's min. wage
* Intertia Bias - sticking with an idea even if you should update it
  - Amazon News

Logical Fallacies
-----------------
* a Tu Quoique by Dave Clark
  - "All we want to know is why the Sen is one of the most powerful pols in VT
    for 30+ yrs and thei min wage is STILL only $11.75."
* Straw Man by Amazon News
  - "One of the most powerful politicians in the United States just said she's
    going to break up an American company so that they can't criticize her
    anymore."

Work in Progress (WIP)
----------------------
Include brief explanations of any major developments between the state of the
issue before it was newsworthy and the present.

Thought Process
---------------
What is the issue? Two ethical situations decribed above. 
Have they always existed? No

To be the company that it is today, it was forced to grow and adapt. The first
entity to do it at this scale. These issues are a by product of Amazon getting
to it's current size.

Draft
-----
A troll is an entity that responds to posts on social media in a way that
pokes fun or goes against the ideas in the original post. Trolls are everywhere
and they usually go by unnoticed, but when we see one of the largest tech
companies in the world, Amazon, play the troll, people take
notice--especially if respectable state representatives are the ones being
trolled. This is exactly what we see in an article from The Verge which
highlights two aspects of Amazon's identity being under fire: their tax history
and employee working conditions (Statt, 2021).

With a mix of executives and state representatives getting involved we see both
automation bias and intertia bias. Amazon's Worldwide Consumer CEO, Dave Clark,
accuses Bernie Sanders of **automation bias** when talking about how the senator's 
home state of VT has a minimum wage less than that of Amazon (Clark, 2021,
Potasznik, Day 3).
The automated system is the formal legal process Sanders is a part of, in which
the possibility of raising the state's minimum wage resides. The non-automated
system would be Amazon's process which allows for a higher minimum wage.
Senator Sanders is being urged to consider Amazon's view on minimum wage. This
response from Clark could be an attempt to keep the focus on minimum wage,
which from a basic lense, usually looks good when compared to anything. Inertia
bias is seen in Amazon New's response to comments on their employee working
conditions, particularly the fact that workers pee in bottles to meet their
rates (Potasznik, Day 3). Instead of acknowledging these circumstances that exist within their
workforce, they deny the idea and stick to their claim that peeing in bottles
doesn't actually happen while highlighting the bright side like, "we have
over a million incredible employees... who are proud of what they do, and have
great wages and health care from day one" (Amazon News, 2021).

Employee working conditions and their tax activities are two ethical concerns
when it comes the the tech giant, but they haven't always existed. These are
both byproducts of the tremendous growth Amazon has undergone. Along the way
they've broken barriers at a scale no one's seen before so problems like these
were bound to happen and are just now being dealt with by law makers. 

Through the trolling presented by the article, a light is shed on how both
parties, Amazon and representatives, are using the platform. On the
representative side we are seeing powerful politicians like Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren use their tweets as a way to keep their constituents in the
loop. Warren informs her followers that she'll "be introducing a bill to make
the most profitable companies pay a fair share" (Warren, 2021). Sanders,
focusing on employee working conditions, uses the platform to announce he'll be
"meeting with Amazon workers in Alabama on Friday" (Sanders, 2021). Both
representatives are prime examples of politicians who are acting upon the words
they tweet. Additional ethical concerns arise when representatives discuss
particular concerns in society, but decide not to pursue actionable change. In
these cases their follower's support is mislead by such representatives who've managed
to find ways to abuse the power of a platform like Twitter.

However, from what we can see in the article, Amazon's use of the platform
feels more like a PR strategy to shield the company as much as possible. Amazon
evades a tax related comment from Warren with a classic **straw man** fallacy
(Potasznik, Day 3), claiming Senator Warren is trying to "break up an American
company" with her work on fairly taxing big tech (Amazon News, 2021). With this
move from Amazon we can safely assume they were talking to the people who
support the company and this type of addressing is an action that'll abuse the
power of the platform. Some people are going to see what Amazon is saying more
than they'll see what it was in response to. Depriving supporters of the full
picture is one of the last things these large organizations should be using the
platform for, yet it's one of the direct results of choosing to divert rather
than explain.

In conclusion, tweeting through the platform, Twitter, can become an ethical
concern when people, or entities, of power are using the platform to mislead
their followers. We see how Amazon is misleading through evading a couple
ethical concerns being brought against them, but it's important to understand
that representatives could be doing the same. Therefore, with this reality, the
perspective an entity takes on how they should use the platform is best when
their followers' best interests are considered because they'll be the ones mislead
if it isn't. 
