Paper 2: Ethical Analysis
=========================
By Jesus Garcia

What are the ethical aspects posed by this paper?
-------------------------------------------------
Targeted attacks on law enforcement agencies, emergency medical services, 9-1-1
dispatch centers, and minicipalities in the U.S.

Cognitive Biases
----------------
* Intertia bias, organizations like hospitals and law inforcement agencies have
  stayed with their outdated, vulnerable infrastructure. 


Players
-------
Russian hacking group - Wizard Spider
Vital institutions around the world.

Draft
-----
Wizard Spider isn't a spider with a staff and a pointy hat, but a Russia-based,
high-profile and sophisticated eCrime group (The CrowdStrike Intel Team, 2020).
While hacking occurs against a variety of entities, I want to focus on the
recent work done by this particular group. Within the last year, they've
targeted various medical and first responder networks in the U.S. These attacks
utilize ransomware to encrypt files of every computer on a network and extort
payment in exchange for dycrypting the files (Stanley, 2021).

From the U.S. institutions targeted, we can see signs of inertia bias in
the way that they've maintained vulnerable, legacy systems rather than updating
and protecting them as vulnerabilities are identified. These institutions have
witnessed cyber attacks on other organizations for years, but have failed to
revise their systems to protect them from those same attacks. This leads us to
our first ethical concern. Why are institutions like hospitals not updating and
securing their technical infrastructure? It's possible that in some of these
cases it all comes down to money. 

The first ethical concern is raised when these institution are looking at their
infrastructure and vulnerabilites with a monetary lense when deciding how to
secure or not secure their systems. If a hospital is struggling to make a profit,
but they have a legacy system that's allowing them to operate normally, are they
going to spend the thousands required to update and secure their
system? If the answer is no, then there could very well be consequences to that
decision. The same can be said by a hospital that is doing well, they could
decide to continue doing well for themselves through bypassing the costs
associated with securing their system. This responsibility would fall onto the
exectives managing these institutions and making decisions on where to divert
their resources. If executives decide not to secure their systems it not only
puts the entire institution at risk, but it will also affect the people that
they serve. In the context of a hospital that digitally stores medical records of
their patients, the patient's data would not be protected and would be exploited
if there were to be an attack. We can see here how the allocation of resources
decided by executives could have ramifications that could negatively impact an
institution and the people they serve. 

Another ethical concern is raised if hackers decide to lock up all the data at 
a hospital. A medical professional becomes unable to access that data, so any 
data dependent actions the hospital needs to execute is impossible until
the data is returned to them. Being that a hospital usually is a place of 
life and death situations, it should be able to do any and all patient related 
actions at any given time. Putting a stop to normal operations puts lives at 
risk, and it's something that hacking groups deemed less important than the
money they are asking for to unlock these systems. Only these hackers know the
types of institutions they plan on targeting, and the sheer number of 
vulnerabilities present in our modern day systems essentially mean that no one
is safe. Clandestine hacker groups raise ethical concerns in regards to their
actions that jeopardize digital assets and operations dependent on those assets.
Additionally, they prompt a deeper look into the reasons for vulnerabilities 
among targeted institutions which shed light on the ethicality of the decisions
being made at the exective level. 

Left to Do
----------
1. Cite the class term, inertia bias.
