Paper 4(5): Ethical Analysis
============================
By Jesus Garcia

Situation (Article Title)
-------------------------
How Tencent's sweeping new facial scans will catch Chinese kids playng past
curfew.
* In China, minors can't legally play past 10pm

Perspectives
------------
* Government (Video game addiction prevention)
* Older generation (Support facial scans)
* Younger generation (Used grandparent's account to play)

Ethical Concerns
----------------
* Creeping normalcy (also a type of cognitive bias)
* Power of Chinese influence
  * Other countries could follow in their footsteps
* Repurposing of technology used for human rights abuses, in a way, justifies
  their use. 
* WHO will hold them accountable? Pos cuidst pos quidis?
* What will this techonology be used for?

Draft
-----
In the U.S., facial recognition is used to unlock our smartphones. In China,
the same technology is used to lock minors out of mobile games if caught
playing outside of a gaming curfew (Hollister, 2021). In 2018, the gaming
company, Tencent, was the first to apply this technology to a subset of
their users (Huang, 2018). There's been a growing conern with the impact video
games could have on the youth in China. This concern has led to an increase in
regulation around video game addiction prevention. Pairing state of the art
surveillence technology and video game addiction must not take the spotlight
away from potential misuses of such technology by the Chinese government.

A type of cognitive bias that's made all of this possible is creeping normalcy.
This is when incremental change results in calm acceptance (Potasznik, Day 3).
The incremental change started with the implementation of a
nationwide system designed to improve policing practices, which spread 
throughout the country to the hundreds of millions of cameras in use today
(Gates, 2021). Over the years, the Chinese government has been advancing it's
infrastructure to the point where it can now scan the face of a minor playing a
game on their phone and cross check that with a government database that
identifies the exact person using the phone. When this is being done in the name
of video game addiction prevention, so there is going to be little to no backlash.
With little resistance, this type of technology is going to continue being
developed and widely adopted by the millions of phones in the country, which is
a continuation of the creeping normalcy that's been happening. Who knows where
this is heading, but more importantly what the government will use it for?

Extending this technology into the realm of mobile video games is only expanding
on the already powerful infrastructure of China's mass surveillance network. The
continued growth calls for increased accountability to ensure that 
abuse and oppression doesn't result from these technologies. For years, the
Chinese government has subjected Turkic Muslims in the Xinjiang region to
various crimes against humanity (Human Rights Watch, 2021). The targeting of
ethnic groups in Xinjiang is much easier with an established mass surveillance
network that can pin point the exact location of any citizen in the country
within minutes. Since this has been happening, it shows that there is no humane
oversight happening within the country. The government is aparently allowed to
do this to their citizens. On the other hand, some recent applications of the
government's systems are showing the world how the technology can be used for
good. 

In the times of the coronavirus pandemic, China was able to take the enforcement
of the lockdown to the next level by tapping into their mass surveillance
network. The moment a citizen went against the rules of lockdown they were found
by the police and their bosses at work were contacted (Yang, Zhu, 2020). This
level of accountability is something that's only possible at this level of
surveillance. Going back to the surveillance of a minor's mobile gaming activity,
this is being done for the good of minors. This technology is being implemented
and required from gaming companies to combat the problem of video game
addiction. Both, coronavirus lockdown enforcement and video game addiction
prevention, are themes that show a government whose goal is to protect and serve
their people. However, when that government is using the same technology for
human rights abuses against Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, it proves that they are
not always trying to protect and serve. 
