Day 1
=====
Pace of Change, Moore's Law, Peer-to-peer economy, Free stuff
* Artificial Intelligence
* Turing Test
* Chinese Room Argument

Peer to Peer economy
--------------------
Is an economy in which sellers and buyers interact directly.
Sellers can sell directly to buyers resulting in a... (Day1).

Free Stuff - How do users "pay" for these things?
-------------------------------------------------
* Advertising
* Donations
* Business provide some services for the public, usually as a marketting tool
* Generosity, people sharing their expertise

Turing Test
-----------
If the computer convinces the human subject that the computer is human, the
computer is said to "pass".

Day 2
=====
Themes, Ethics: Schools of Thought, Rights
* Old v. New
* Lag time (legislation or education)
* Trade-offs
* Kant, Trotsky, Hobbes, Rousseau

Negative Feedback Loops
-----------------------
* Damaging self-referental outputs, usually in "black box" algorithms.
* Example: A criminal labeled as "high risk" in law enforcement database.

Deontological
-------------
Step-by-step (rule based)

Utilitarianism
--------------
Outcome-based
[Outcome must be greatest good for greatest number of people]

Social Contract Theory
----------------------
People willingly submit to a common law in order to live in a civil society.
  Human lives without a law system are "nasty, brutish and short."
  -Hobbes: Leviathan (1651)

Negative Rights (liberties)
---------------------------
The right to act without interference
  Ex. Freedom of Speech

Positive Rights (claim-rights)
------------------------------
An obligation of some people to provide certain things for others.
  Ex. Paying taxes to the governement who then then provide "free" education

Day 3
=====
Psychological elements in Ethics
* Logical Fallacies 

Cognitive Dissonance
--------------------
* Mental stress generated by the co-existence of conflicting thoughts -> usually
  minimized by self-justification.
* Misrepresentation, hiding problems and inadequate resonse to reported problems.

Conflicts of Interest
---------------------
* Situations that have the potential to undermine the impartiality of **a person**
  because of the possibility of :underline:`a clash between the person's 
  self-interest and profession interest or public interest`
* self dealing
* Nepotism
  * Ulysses S. Grant hired over 40 of his relatives (1869-1877)
  * John Adams, George Bush, Bill Clinton, Donald Trump

Bystander Effect
----------------
Phenomenom in which the probability of an individual providing help is
inversely related to number of people who witness the situation.

Diffusion of Responsibility
---------------------------
* Usually cited as the explanation for the Bystander Effect
* "in a large group of people, people may feel that individual resonsibility to
  intervene is lessened because it is shared by all of the onlookers."

Streisand Effect
----------------
the effort of people to hide, remove or downplay information results in
increased attention to it.

Decision Fatigue
----------------
The idea that the more decisions one makes, the lower the quality of those
decision.

Confirmation Bias
-----------------
People seek and absorb information that is aligned with their original ideas.

Inertia Bias
------------
* "Status quo" bias
* The tendency to stay with an idea without updating or revising it despite
  evidence that doing so would be benefical.
* "It has always been like this; therefore it should always be like this.
* Defaults are extremely powerful. Chosen by developers and executives.

Creeping Normalcy
-----------------
Incremental change results in calm acceptance, whereas abrupt change with the
same results causes outcry.

Logical Fallacies
-----------------
Argument structure
+---------+-------+
| Premise | Logic |
+=========+=======+
|    1    | A = B |
+---------+-------+
|    2    | B = C |
+---------+-------+
Conclusion: A = C
* Logical fallacies occur when premises aren't reasonable or conclusions are
  unsound reasoning.

1. **Ad hominem**
   * "To the man"
   * Attacking your opponent's personal traits instead of the content of their
     argument.
2. **Anecdotal Evidence**
   * Basing conclusions on personal experiences instead of empirical evidence.
3. **Appeal to Emotion**
   * The manipulation of emotional responses instead of basing arguments on
     sound logic.
4. **Argument from Authority**
   * Arguing that if an authority says something, its veracity (trueness) is
     beyond doubt.
5. **Balance Fallacy**
   * The presentation of an issue as being more balanced
     than the evidence supports.
   * Ascribing equal value to both sides of an arguments, regardless of
     evidence or merit.
   * Related to "Middle ground" fallacy
   * Two causes of misinformation
     * Proportionality
     * Omission
6. **Begging the Question**
   * Circular reasoning
   * Example - 
     Interviewer: "Your resume looks impressive but I need another reference."
     Bill: "Jill can give me a good reference."
     Interviewer: "Good. But how do I know that Jill is trustworthy?"
     Bill: "I can vouch for her."
7. **Burden of Proof**
   * Rather than proving that your claim is true, this fallacy puts the onus
     :underline:`on your opponent` to prove it is false.
8. **Composition/Division**
   * Assuming that what's true about one part of something has to be applied to
     all (or other) parts of it.
   * Example - 
     protons and neutrons are invisible so anything they make up is also
     invisible. (False)
9. **The Fallacy Fallacy**
   * The thought that if someone commits a logical fallacy, their point is
     disproven.
   * "Eating vegetables is good for you. I have a fiend who eats vegetables all
     the time and she is really healthy."
     "That's a fallacy of anecdotal evidence, vegetables must not be healthy!"
10. **False Dichotomy**
    * Views or choices are inaccurately limited to one of two options.
11. **Post hoc ergo propter hoc**
    * Implying casual relationship when there is none.
    * Equating causality with correlation.
12. **Red Herring**
    * Focusing on a non-issue instead of the argument at hand.
13. **Slippery Slope**
    * Negating arguments with unsubstantiated conjecture of consequences.
    * Can be fallacious or valid.
14. **Straw Man**
    * Presenting an altered version of the opponent's argument so
      that is seems absurd, then disproving the weak argument.
15. **Tu Quoique**
    * "You too"
      * Equating others' lack of reasoning as proof/justification of your own.
    * Example -
      "You accepted bribes for your campaign!"
      "Well, so did you!"

Automation Bias
---------------
The tendency to trust automated systems (and even ignore contradictory correct
information if it comes from a non-automated source)

Automation Complacency
----------------------
Insufficient attention to automation output because that output is viewed as
reliable.

Day 4
=====
Privacy: Key Aspects, Fair Information Principles, 4th Amendment, Privacy Case
Law
* Re-identification
* Secondary use
* Informed consent
* HIPAA
* GLBA
* FISMA

Key Aspects of Privacy
----------------------
1. Freedom from intrusion (being left alone)
2. Control of information about oneself
3. Freedom from surveillance (from being tracked, followed, watched)

Re-Identification
-----------------
Identifying individuals based on small pieces of info from multiple sources

Secondary Use
-------------
Data collected for one purpose may find other uses.
When using this term, we must describe the primary use before talking about
secondary use.

Invisible Information Gathering
-------------------------------
Collection of personal information about a user without the user's knowledge.

Data Mining
-----------
Searching and analyzing masses of data to find patterns & develop new
information or knowledge.

Computer Profiling
------------------
Analyzing data to see which people are likely to engage in a certain behavior.

Informed Consent
----------------
Permission granted in full knowledge of possible consequences.
* **opt out** - Person must request (usually by checking a box) that an
  organization *not* use information
* **opt in** - The collector of the information may use information only if
  person explicitly permits use (usually by checking a box).

Fair Information Principles
---------------------------
1. Inform people when you collect information.
2. Collect only the data needed.
3. Offer a way for people to opt out.
4. Keep data only as long as needed.
5. Maintain accuracy of data.
6. Protect security of data.
7. Develop policies for responding to law enforcement requests for data.

The 4th Amendment
-----------------
The right of the people to be secure in their person, houses, papers, and
effects, against unreasonable seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrents
shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and
particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to
be seized.

The Privacy Act (1974)
----------------------
* Limits disclosure of records held by agencies of the federal government to
  other agencies, organizations, and individuals, although...
* in an omission that disappointed privacy advocates and ignored the
  recommendations of the secretary's committee, it did not incorporate the
  private sector in its scope.
* As of 2007, Dept. of Homeland Security and ADIS are exempt.
* Some think it may have been a response to public outcry of "big government"
  and surveillance states as depicted in Orwell's 1984(1949).

Olmstead V. United States (1928)
--------------------------------
* Supreme Court **allowed** the use of **wiretaps** on telephone lines without
  a court order.
* Interpreted the Fourth Amendment to **apply only to physical intrusion** and
  only the search of seizure of material things, not conversations.
* Applies to the federal government. Once a federal government has you personal
  information, they aren't allowed to share that information with other
  agencies.

Katz V. United States (1967)
----------------------------
* Supreme Court reversed its position and ruled that the Fourth Amendment does
  apply to conversations.
* Court said that the Fourth Amendment protects people, not places. To intrude
  in a place where reasonable person has a **reasonable expectation of
  privacy** requires a court order.
* Reversal of the Olmstead V United States (1928) decision.

Kyllo V. United States (2001)
-----------------------------
Court stated that where "the government uses a device that is not in General
Public Use, ... the surveillance is a "search" and a warrant must be obtained."

Day 5
=====
Marketing/Personalization, Location Tracking, Right to be Forgotten, EU v US,
1968 Crime Control Act
* 1986 ECPA
* CALEA
* NSA
* FISA
* Rule 41

GDPR (May '18)
--------------
* General Data Protection Regulation
* Harmonize data rules across EU and for EU customers
  * American companies with EU users also must abide
* Basically, fair info principles become "regulation"
  * Major fines for noncompliance (10m euro)
  * Possible jail time if other laws are also broken + higher fines (20m)
* Data Protection Officers must be appointed
  * For companies of all sizes, not just large companies
* Explicit consent required for data profiling

1968 Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streats Act
-----------------------------------------------
* prohibits GOVERNMENT agencies from wiretapping without a warrant.
* codification of Katz V. United States (1967)

Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA)
----------------------------------------------------
* of 1986 extended the 1968 wiretapping laws to include electronic
  communications. 
* Before ECPA, service providers who had your data relinquished your rights to
  it.
* Title II: Stored Communnications Act: restricts gov't and business access to
  e-data (gave 4th amendment level protection for data stored with ISPs)

Communications Assistance For Laws Enforcement Act (CALEA) 1994
---------------------------------------------------------------
Amended ECPA: requires telecom equipment to be designed to ensure that the
gov't can intercept telephone calls (with a court order or other
*authorization*). Has been upheld in several law suits.

National Security Agency (NSA)
------------------------------
* "CALEA on steroids" - intelligence gathering agency
* 1952: Formed to intercept and decode WW2 messages, only allowed to spy on
  foreign entities
* Patriot Act (2001): [Sec. 215] "the entirety of US communications may be
  considered relevant to a terrorism investigation if it expected that even a 
  tiny minority may relate to terrorism" -> **US now included in NSA
  surveillance**... but most civilians were unaware (until 2013). Main
  surveillance provisions EXPIRED: June 1, 2015 -> USA freedom act

Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) 1978:
--------------------------------------------------
* established oversight court for the NSA
  * Both are government entities
  * Judges appointed, not elected
  * aggregate numbers submitted to congress once/year.
  * Section 702 of FISA update in 2008 allows for warrantless surveillance of
    Americans online.
  * "Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?" - Juvenal

Rule 41
-------
* Set procedural guidelines for courts (what time they open, which holidays the
  courts are closed, etc.)
* The DOJ wants to "update" Rule 41 with extensive surveillance permissions for
  law enforcement
  * Hiding one's ID online would constitute probable cause for a warrant to
    remotely hack the computer (using a VPN)
  * Any computer that is part of a botnet system would be fair game for
    surveillance and remote hacking.

Day 6
=====
1st Amendment, Telecom '96, Chilling Effects, Obscenity, Case Law
* Censorship
* Span
* Porn

Freedom of Speech (1st Amendment)
---------------------------------
"It's become so common to ... walk through garbage and violent imagery online
that people have accepted it ina way. And it's become so noisy that you have to
shout more loudly, and more shockingly, to be heard."
- Susan Benesch 

FCC: Federal Communications Commission
--------------------------------------
"regulates interstate and international communications by radio, television,
wire, satellite and cable in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S.
territories. An independent U.S. government agency overseen by Congress, the
commission is the United States' primary authority  for communications law,
regulation and technological innovation."

Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Part 1)
---------------------------------------
2002 update: Changed regulatory structure of telephone services: ISPs are info
services, not common carriers -> they are not subject to regulation by the FCC
-> ISPs can do/charge what they want.
(Part 2)
"NO PROVIDER... of interactive computer services SHALL BE TREATED AS A
PUBLISHER of any information provided by another information - content
provider."

Chilling Effect
---------------
Discouragement/suppression of legal behavior (including speech)

Communications Decency Act of 1996 (CDA) - X
--------------------------------------------
* First major Internet censorship law
* Made it a crime to make available to anyone under 18 any obscene or indecent
  communication. 
* Censorship - found to be unconstitutional - X

Children's Internet Protection Act of 2000 (CIPA)
-------------------------------------------------
* Requires schools and libraries that paticipate in certain federal programs to
  install filtering software.
* **Upheld in court**
  * Does not iolate First amendment since it does not require the use of
    filters, impose jail or fines
  * It sets a condition for receipt of certain federal funds

Can-Spam Act 2003
-----------------
* Law against sending strangers adverts for porn or marketing stuff
* "Not illegal to send that stuff, but you have to follow certain rules."
* Criticized for not banning all spam, legitimized commercial spam


From Day 7
==========
Posting, Selling, Leaking sensitive material
* Criteria to consider before leaking info
* Espionage Act of 1917

3 Things To Consider Before Leaking Info
----------------------------------------
1. Type of material
2. Value to society
3. Risks to society and individuals

From Day 8
==========
Anonymity, Government control of Internet, Censorship
* Other contries vs. US
* Microsoft + NSA
* Apple + FBI update
 
From Day 9
==========
Intellectual Property, Copyright, US v LaMacchia, No Electronic Theft Act
* The Berne
* Convention
* Fair Use Doctrine

Berne Convention
----------------
Global copyright agreement (1886): signatory countries agree to enforce
copyright violations across borders (adopted in US: 1988)

The Following Exclusive Rights
------------------------------
U.S copyright Law (Title 17 of U.S. Code) gives the copyright holder:
1. To make copies
2. To produce derivative works, such as translations into other languages or
   movies based on books
3. To distribute copies
4. To perform the work in public (e.g. music, plays)
5. To display the work in public (e.g. artwork, movies, computer games, video
   on a Web site)

LaMacchia Loophole
------------------
* Copyright violations must be brought under the Copyright Act.
* 1992 Copyright Act requires financial gain by pirates to count as
  infringement.
* LaMacchia didn't financially benefit from copying/distributing material, so
  copyright laws at the time didn't apply.

1997 No Electronic Theft Act
----------------------------
made it a felony to willfully infringe copyright by reproducing or distributing
one or more copies of copyrighted work with a total value of more than $1,000
within a 6 month period.

Fair Use Doctrine
----------------
* Four factors considered
  1. Purpose and nature of use - commercial (less likely) or nonprofit purposes
  2. Nature of the copyrighted work
  3. Amount and significance of portion used
  4. Effect of use on potential market or value of the copyright work (will it
     reduce sales of work?)
* No single factor alone determines what's fair
* Not all factors given equal weight, varies by circumstance

From Day 10
===========
Betamax, Atari v. Nintendo, DRM, DMCA
* Napster
* Aereo
* Look and Feel
* SOPA
* Open Source

Sony V. Universal City Studios
------------------------------
* (1984) "The Betamax Case"
* Supreme Court decided that the makers of a device with legitimate uses should
  not be penalized because some people may use it to infringe on copyright
* Copying movies for later viewing was fair use
* Arguments against fair use
  * People copied the entire work
  * Movies are creastive, not factual

Sony wins:
* Arguments for fair use
  * The copy was for private, noncommercial use and generally was not kept
    after viewing
  * The movie studios could not demonstrate that they suffered any harm
  * The studios had received a substantial fee for broadcasting movies on TV,
    and the fee depends on having a large audience who view for free

Digital Rights Management -> DRM
--------------------------------
* Collection of techniques that countrol uses of intellectual property in
  digital formats
* Include hardware and software schemes using encryption
* The producer of a file has flexibility to specify what a user may do with it

The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) 1998
------------------------------------------------
* Anti-circumvention
  * Prohibits circumventing DRM
* Safe harbor
  * Protects Web sites from lawsuits for copyright infringement by users of
    site (extended Telecommunications Act protections with the condition that
    providers abide by take-down notices.)

RIAA V. NAPSTER
---------------
Napster's arguments
* It was the same as a search engine, which is protected under the DMCA (1998)
  and Telecommunications Act (1996)
* They did not store any of the MP3 files
* Their technology had substantial legitimate uses
* The Sony decision allowed for entertainment use to be considered fair use
* Did not hurt industry sales because users sampled the music on Napster and
  bought the CD if they like it.

RIAA's arguments
* Companies are required to make an effort to prevent copyright violations and
  Napster did not take sufficient steps
* RIAA sent takedown notices (Madonna, Metallica, Dr. Dre) and they were
  ignored.
* "Personal" meant very limted use, not trading with thousands of strangers
* Songs and music are creative works and users were copying whole songs
* Claimed Napster severely hurt sales

The decision:
* Napster was promoting itself as a music service (went against legitimate use
  claim)
* Did not abide by take down notices
* Napster was not a device or new technology and the RIAA was not seeking to
  ban the technology

Court ruled Napster liable because they had the right and ability to supervise
the system, including copyright infringing activities

Look & Feel
-----------
* Refers to interface features
  * pull-down menus, windows, icons, and finger movements and specific ways
    they are used to select or initiate actions
* Reflects major creative effort by programmers.
* Genreally NOT protected by copyright
* Method of operation, not design

From Day 11
=========
Photography, Photo ethics and copyright, Deep fakes
* Shephard Fairey
* Afghan girl
* Photo manipulation
* Fake news

From Day 12
===========
Hacking, CFAA, Aaron Swartz, Responsible disclosure
* Hactivism
* BART
* Stuxnet
* US v Lori Drew

Hactivism
---------
* Use of hacking to promote a political cause
* Disagreement about whether it is a form of civil isobedience and how
  (whether) it should be punished
* Some use the appearance of hactivism to hide other criminal activities
* Hactivism or simple vandalism?
* Anonymouse vs. BART

Responsible Disclosure
----------------------
* White hat hackers
* Black hat
* Grey hat

Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) - 1984
------------------------------------------
* Under CFAA, it is illegal to access a computer without authorization

Phishing
--------
* Requests for personal and financial information disguised as legitimate
  business communication e-mail.

From Day 15
===========
Gambling, Wire Act 1961, RAWA, UIGEA
* State lotteries
* Fantasy Sports

RAWA
----
* Introduced in March of 2014, reintroduced 2/2015
* Restoration of America's Wire Act would rewrite the Federal Wire Act of 1961
  with the goal of extending the Wire Act to ban most forms of online gambling
  (whether such activity was legalized and regulated by state governments or
  not).

Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (2006) - UIGEA
---------------------------------------------------------
* it is forbidden to accept "any financial instrument" for internet gambling.
  * Includes game of chance  
  * Still ok: fantasy sports, legal intrastate gambling; does not mention state
    lottries or horse racing.


From Day 16
===========
Job creation and destruction, Availability: education vs. jobs, Telecommuniting,
Outsourcing and off-shoring
* ECPA exception

Out; Off, In: Shoring
---------------------
* Outsourcing - phenomenon in which a company pays another company for services
  instead of performing those tasks itself.
* Offshoring - the practice of moving business processes or services to another
  country, especially overseas, to reduce costs.
* Inshoring - when another company employs thousands of people in the U.S. (e.g.
  offshoring for a German company means inshoring for U.S.)
* Almost 5% of U.S. workers are employed by foreign companies.

From Day 18
===========
Evaluating information, Wisdom of the crowd, Computer Modeling, Online Degrees
- Scams
* Making decisions about technology

Wisdom of the Crowd
-------------------
* Best definition: The more who contribute, the more accurate the results
* If millions participate, the results will be useful
* Daunting amount of information on the web, much of this information is not
  correct.
* Search engines are replacing librarians, but Web sites are ranked by
  popularity, not by expert evaluation.

Abdication of Responsibility
----------------------------
* "Giving up control/authority"
  * People may be willing to let computers do their thinking
  * Reliance on computer systems over human judgement may become
    institutionalized.

From Day 19
===========
The Digital Divide, Neo-Luddites, Conflict Minerals
* Technological singularity

The Digital Divide
------------------
* The gap between people who have ready access to technology and the internet and
  those who do not.

Neo Luddites
------------
* Believe that technology is more harmful to society that it is beneficial.
* Roots in Industrial Revolution (late 18th, early 19th centuries)  

Digital Dementia
----------------
* Short term memory dysfunction caused by reliance on digital devices rather
  than memory
* "While many of us grew up remembering phone numbers and other key information
  simply by memorizing it, most kids today have grown up not needing to
  remember things like phone numbers because we have devices that do it for
  us." -Alzheimers.net statement

Planned Obsolescence
--------------------
* "... designing a product with an artificially limited use life, so it will
  become obsollete, that is, unfashionably or no longer functional after a
  certain period of time."

E-Waste
-------
* Computers seperate humans from nature and destroy the environment

Technological Singularity
-------------------------
* point at which artificial intellignce or some combined human-machine
  intelligence advances so far that we cannot control it
* We cannot prepare for aftermath, but prepare for more gradual developments

From Day 20
===========
Glitches
* Voting machines
* Billing

Legacy Systems
--------------
* Reliable but inflexible
* Little or no documentation
* Expensive to replace
* Obscure to new users

Nonlinear
---------
* changes in output are not proportional to changes in input

From Day 21
===========
Fatal Glitches, Ariane 5 Rocket, Antares, Therac-25, HRO structures
* Challenger 1986
* Columbia 2003
* Boeing 737 Max
* IV&V
* TCAS

Therac 25
---------
* Massive overdoses of radiation were given; the machine said no dose had been
  administered
* Caused severe and painful injuries; + the death of six patients
* Manufacturer, computer programmer, and hospitals/clinics all have some
  responsibility

High Reliability Organization
-----------------------------
* preoccupation with failure
* loose structure (no strict or intimidating hierarchy between programmers and
  others)
* An HRO is an organization that avoids disasters in a setting where
  catastrophes would seem common due to high risk and complexity.

Independent verification and validation (IV&V)
----------------------------------------------
* paying a third-party company to come and test/validate something

Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS)
-----------------------------------------
* Automated system that directs pilots in case of imminent collision.
* Computers in some airplanes prevent certain pilot actions
* Near misses and accidents

From Day 22
===========
Professional ethics
* ACM, IEEE
* Start 9.3.1

ACM
---
Association for Computing Machinery

IEEE
----
Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers

Both of the above professional associations have adopted the following code:
* Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice
