When citing the actual term use the following: ... **Straw Man** fallacy ...
(Potasznik, Day 3).


Outline of the paper: 

Introduction
------------
Trolls are not something new or foreign to the world of social media. They've
actually existed since the start of the internet (Feinberg, 2014). Trolling is
now a commonly used term by media outlet when describing an interaction between
two parties on a social media platform, especially when one of the parties
appears to not take the other seriously. This action is what's seen between an
official Amazon twitter account, @amazonnews, and various political
representatives regarding Amazon's tax history and employee treatment. 
Amazon is ranked #2 on the Forbes' Fortune 500 ranking (Forbes, 2021).
Additionally, you'll have to go out of your way to find somebody that isn't
your grandmother who knows who's Amazon. Therefore, I wouldn't say that this
is your trypical troll. If we look at one of the Twitter comments stated in the
article from @amazonnews, "One of the most powerful politicians in the United
States just said she's going to break up an American company so that they can't
criticize her anymore." We can see that this is a **straw man** fallacy after
rephrasing Sen. Warren's expression "fight[ing] to break up Big Tech" with
Amazon's, "break up an American company" (Statt, 2021). Who would dare want to
break up an American company? I see two obvious view points, Amazon and, with a
little clumpling, various state representatives. Now to start things off from
the first perspective, Amazon. 

Amazon is simply a behemoth of a company that most people do not take the time
to fathom. Additionally, its founder, Jeff Bezos, being among the richest men in the world
acts a  testiment to the power behind the company. The company's rise came with
a societal norm shift of the way people acquire physical goods in the new
online world. There are two points mentioned in the article that warrant a
response from the big tech icon. The first comments are against Amazon's tax
history stating, "they exploit loopholes and tax havens to pay close to nothing
in taxes" (Warren, 2021). In response to this Amazon claims, "Here are the
facts: Amazon has paid billions of dollars in corporate taxes of the past few 
years alone" (Amazonnews, 2021). Off the bat, Amazon seems to have countered
Senator Warrens statement. A defensive move from the behemoth. The giant
appears to play in defensive mode when they feel it to be the move. Warren
is clear about asking for Amazon to be better when it comes to their
contribution, so understandably, Amazon feels attacked and must go on the
defensive with their response. Being as powerful as a company like Amazon
probably is, they are doing anything that they feel like doing. In this case
they are not going to allow a prominent politician attempt to stain their name. 
The second point mentioned in the article is in regards to theliv 
