Jesus Garcia
============
This is a late response you DO NOT have to reply. Homework for day 3, 4, and 5.

Day 3
-----
1. I would say that decision fatigue occurs when "on the road" for long hours.
   Over the course of driving for 3+ hours you'd have made 100s of decisions,
   to speed up or slow down, to stop, to pass the car in front of you, etc.
   It's not mystery that driving is tiring, and I believe that with the many
   decision you must make, decision fatigue plays a significant part in the
   general fatigue that comes with driving. Self-driving cars leverage AI to
   automate the majority of the driving decisions. This automation seems
   alleviates the fatigue drivers face after hours of being on the road. The
   problems with widespread self-driving are the ethical questions on what the
   right thing to do in near-crash situations. These situations are something
   along the lines of hit car A or person B. I don't know what I would do in a
   situation like this, but probabilistically speaking, I'm probably more likely
   to find myself in a situation like this than an AI. Another problem would be
   the increase in computers/network connections that come with this type of
   system, the more that you have the more vulnerabilities that exist.

2. Kanye West said that he almost killed his kids when he mentions how his
   wife, Kim Kardashian, considered an abortion. He implies that there's a
   relationship between his wife's decision at the time and the well-being 
   of his living children. Given that whatever happened happened, I'm saying
   that there is no real relationship here.

Day 4
-----
1. Read.

2. I would say at the core of the scenario there is an ad hominem because this
   is all based on the physical characteristics of the suspects.

3. I say that if they are going to have faces of innocent people it should be
   an equal distribution of all people. I'm saying to include all innocent
   people and the same number of images for each. It's not right to have some
   innocent people and not others. I would say this can be helpful because in
   David Kravets article, they actually arrest a criminal.

4. At this point, I don't care if they have my face. I'm sure they already do.
   I walked into one of those Amazone "no cashier" stores where it's all video
   recognition and stuff. 

5. People who study and actually understand the ramifications of a
   "lack-of-privacy" like a face database will probably tell me that they
   shouldn't have my face.

6. I say that it should exist, and I do not see why it cannot be super
   restrictive. A coder can build the surveillance system in a way that
   achieves a small subset of goals for the purpose of everyone's safety. Do
   not do anything else with the data, easy. Delete it or something. 

Day 5
-----
1. One situation are prison guards. I've heard stories of prison guards abusing
   their power in the jails. 

2. One reason for US citizens is that all humans have the right to privacy from
   the 4th amendment and monitoring online is one of the worse things you can
   do. Another for US citizen is that in Katz V US, they've ruled that when
   there is an expectaction of privacy a court order is required. There's a
   literally lock screen on phones so people, therefore people have an
   expectaction of privacy when it comes to their phones. As for reasons for
   the NSA, one of them is "Do we want 9/11 to happen again?". Another reason
   for the NSA can be a reference to CALEA stating that the government has the
   right to intercept what goes on with our phones.

3. I favor European style regulation. If people are truly bothered by the
   reality of modern day data collection, they should have the right to not be
   bothered by it by being forgetten by the collectors. I believe this to be a
   step in the right direction becuase when people's data are being stored for
   someone else's gain, it shouldn't even be stored. I'm down to store my own
   data for my own gain, how about that?
