Jesus Garcia
============
Homework for day 6, 7, and 8.

Day 6
-----
1. An operator must obtain parent's consent if the data of a child is involved.
   They are also required to provide data to the parent upon request. I think
   the requirements are too lenient for the "verifiable parental consent"
   possibilities. If the possibilities were thinned, then there would be less
   ways for a child to forge parental consent. For example, if
   video-conferencing verification was the only option, no child would slip
   through. Instead of "verifiable parental consent" operators could not
   collect a child's data.

2. My opinion is the publishers/admins need to have some responsibility in all
   cases because the platform is theirs and provided by them to the criminals.
   It's like giving a murderer a gun. I'd say they should be more thoughtful
   about the negative potential their platform could have. My opinions on
   SESTA/FOSTA is that it's really unfortunate that online sex workers were
   displaced into more dangerous environments to operate in.

3. The logic does not apply because a phone is an individuals property and they
   should have a right to do anything they want on it. I think it's natural
   that people don't think "I hope no one else sees what I'm doing on my phone
   right now." 

4. Hacker - 100%. If I were being hacked, that would bring harm to me. It does
   not feel good. Especially if I am not tormenting others, I do not think it's
   possible to be rightfully hacked. If someone posted my stuff, the hacker
   made it possible. I don't think I should have blame unless the leaked
   material was already in it of itself a leak. 

Day 7
-----
1. Chelsea Manning's type of material was arial footage of bombing reporters
   that allegedly came with audio of soldiers who loved what they did. The
   value to society was people who didn't like the war got more motivation to
   advocate against it. The risks to society and individuals are the US
   Military gets a stain on their reputation. With all this considered, I think
   was she did was justified. I haven't heard what the soldiers were saying but
   I'd say that's the most important part. Hearing what they say sheds light on
   how they think which sheds light on the systematic training of these
   soldiers and whether or not it's an ethical methodology.

2. Edward Snowden's type of material was proof that the NSA was tracking
   virtually all communications. The value to society that this had was people
   learned the truth about how the government was getting all of society's
   data. The risks to society was that the government was no longer "under the
   radar" with this mass data collections. Since the truth is valuable, I'd say
   that this is justified. 

3. Reality Winner's type of material was information of a Russian cyberattack
   in 2016. The value to society of her actions was again, the truth,
   and people who were already not in support of Trump may have gotten more
   passionate. The risks to society are the vulnerabilities exploited described
   in the leaked cyber attack report. This leak probably made the involved
   systems even more vulnerable to attacks. With a leak like this, I think it's
   important that context is obtained to provide a fuller picture. Maybe it was
   impossible for her to obtain context, and in that case, I think she did the
   right thing.

Day 8
-----
1. Done.

2. If the government is going to use it against millions of other people who
   aren't dead terrorists, then I'm against it. If the plan is to only use it
   in dead terrorist scenarios, then I'll support them. We can probably assume
   it's the former and that's unfortunate. 

3. I believe anonymity is appropriate almost everywhere on the internet.
   Websites with a history of malicious activity should prohibit anonymity.
   People will stop if their identity is attached. Review sites should still
   allow anonymous reviews, and they should also have a way to prevent
   fraudulent reviews. One way to do that would be to have a process that
   verifies you have actually experienced what you're reviewing.

4. If censorship and surveillance are illegal in the US because of our negative
   rights then American companies with products that do exactly that are
   hypocrits. An argument for these companies is they are good about keeping it
   abroad and not within the US. An argument against them is that our American
   negative rights should extend to all humans of the world. I wouldn't be
   surprised if the work being done by these American companies is all about
   money and they're just being used by the government. Maybe even giving
   grants for the type of research that advances this type of thing. 


Responses to my peers
=====================

Changsheng Li
-------------
Hi Changsheng, 
I like your suggested alternative of educating the children about internet
safety. My only questions about this is what the goal we try to teach the
children should be and who's going to decide that. What will we tell them about
data colletion and how will that idea develop in their children brains. I feel
that something like this could possibly be left to the responsibility of the
parents.

DuyAnh Nguyen
-------------
Hi DuyAnh,
Providers make these platforms by being extrememly intentional with the code
they're writing. Therefore, I'm suggesting that they are capable of deriving
most scenarios that are going to take place on a platform that they built. So,
I think shifting blame on to providers would change the provider culture for
the better by increasing accountability vibes on their end. 

Raymond Dugas
-------------
Hi Raymond,
I think your point that other countries would find other ways to acquire
censorship and surveillance products if US companies weren't providing them is
an important one. It shows how messed up the reality of the situation is. 
