Jesus Garcia
============
Homework for day 9, 10, and 11.

Day 9
-----
1a. I would say that this analogy is appropriate. In regards to derivative
works, they are a bit unique in their own way, but do not take away anything
from the original work. The original work is special in that it paved the way
for derivative works to exist.

1b. A reason why the fire starter should share is so the other strangers can
start doing other things for the benefit of the camp. Instead of wasting time
trying to do something someone else has already done, they can be gather food
or setting up shelter which at the end of the day would benefit everyone. She
should not get anything in return for sharing because of my point above where
she will get the benefits that come with saving everyone else time.

2. The strongest and weakest is identified as I rebuttal each point.
   * Rebuttal: Work a job to afford it. This is the strongest point because
     money shouldn't be a barrier to anything, yet it's the barrier to
     everything. 
   * A rebuttal to this is that there is a slippery slope fallacy because when
     you start using this reasoning, you're going to start messing with other
     large and rich companies.
   * Rebuttal, if it isn't retail price then the company will still lose. It
     wouldn't be what they intended. 
   * Rebuttal: Borrowing is not the same as owning, and if you own, you should
     have paid for it. 
   * Rebuttal: Your actions contribute to priracy! A deontologist would say
     "shame on you."
   * Rebuttal: Just because everyone does it, doesn't mean you should do it. If
     everyone jumps off a cliff, will you also jump? I say this one is the
     weakest because following the masses doesn't promote individuality. 
   * Rebuttal: Google exists for a reason, you can find out that information
     with the blessing of the internet. 
   * Rebuttal: You're still acting as a source of piracy and that is not ok. 

Day 10
------
1. A)
Dotcom offense:
* By maintaining and managing the website, Dotcom is in a way circumventing
  DRM, which is against DMCA.
* Take-down notices were ignored.
Dotcom defense:
* The safe harbor component of DMCA protects Dotcom because the users are the
  ones doing copyright infringement. 
* Running a web site is completely different from committing a crime.
Questions:
* To Dotcom: How much money did you get from your website and how was money
  coming in?
* To MPAA/RIAA: Who were the artists most affected by this site's existance and
  how were they affected?

2. B) I do not believe these statements are equally valid. I would say that the
   first statement is valid because given the nature of digital stuff, there's
   only so much that can be done. DMCA's anti-circumvention is probably the
   best thing that can be done to stop copyright infringment. The next best
   thing would be to encode software in the digital files that stops any
   copyright from the inside, but of course, technology like that is going to
   come at a premium and will first make its rounds through the government for
   their stuff. The second statement is not valid becuase the trauma that comes
   with being robbed is not something worth taking a chance on. I think people
   don't have locks on their doors because they don't know what it feels like
   to live in fear and anyone who knows that feeling would have more than good
   locks on their doors. 

Day 11
------
1. 
   * Category 1: An ethical digital manipulation could be a time-lapse exposure
     image from SpaceX discussed in `this article
     <https://www.businessinsider.com/time-lapse-image-of-spacex-rocket-launch-and-landing-2015-12>`_.
     I'd consider this ethical because it shows the full story of this single
     event. To my limited photography knowledge, it's just a collection of real
     photos overlayed into a single image. Everything involved in this
     manipulation is truth, and in the end, there's a single picture that
     captures the entire event. Something like that is not possible without the
     digital manipulation. 
   * Category 2: Images published on the first page of Fox News reporting
     protest in Seattle. Article with images can be found `here
     <https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/politics/fox-news-runs-digitally-altered-images-in-coverage-of-seattles-protests-capitol-hill-autonomous-zone/>`_.
     There are multiple digital manipulations that inaccurately report the
     protests in Seattle which is why I believe it's unethical. This is an
     outlet that many people monitor and when they are inaccurately covering a
     story, it leads to many people recieving inaccurately information and
     forming inaccurately images of what's actually going on in thier heads. I
     just wonder who's idea it was to photoshop these images and why that
     person is allowed to do something like this at this scale.
   * Category 3: `This site <https://www.fotor.com/features/red-eye.html>`_
     offers red-eye correction along with other photo manipulations. An
     argument for this kind of service is that something like red-eyes in a
     photo should be there, so correcting it only makes the image more real
     because humans don't have red-eyes like the ones that sometimes appears in
     photos. As an argument against these type of manipulations, a service like
     a blemish remover makes the photo less real. At the time the photo was
     taken, it may have been a time when the subject of the photo had various
     blemishes and it would make the moment being caputured more disconnected
     from the real moment. 

2. I think "photoshop laws" are a step in the right direction. The laws in
   isreal where a warning label is required for photoshopped images is one way
   to contain the negative impacts of photoshoping. People can know the truth
   behind an image if it's simply the original image or if it's a digital
   manipulation with a warning label. These are not exactly the same but are
   efforts toward a more transparent system. I would say that altering images
   for advertisements is more okay when the subjects of adverts are non-human.
   When it comes to humans, digital manipulations could have more of an impact
   because the audience will see the lies and relate it to themselves. I don't
   care for pictures or altering. I have altered in the past when I was younger
   and didn't think too much about anything. I have nothing to say about other
   people altering their images, they're doing it for whatever reason that I
   have no say in. 

3. Fair Use Doctrine Analysis
   * Purpose and nature of use - Commercial reasons. Fairey produced this work
     for monetary gain.
   * Nature of the copyrighted work - There is the added words "HOPE".
     Additionally, the image is now half blue and half red. 
   * Amount and significance of portion used - All of Obama was what was
     used in the alleged copyright image. Obama was all of the value of the
     original photo it's safe to say that a significant portion was used.
   * Effect of use on potential market or value of the copyright work (will it
     reduce sales?) - The value of the original work most likely decreased with 
