Jesus Garcia
============
Homework for Day 18, 19 and 20.

Day 18
------
1. Someone else that trusts wisdom of the crowd is my uber driving using the
   official Uber app to process my ride, but then immediatly switching to the
   Waze app for directions on how to get to the destination. Switching/using
   Waze is a change in his behavior, most likely due to his positive experience
   with the accuracy of Waze's wisdom of the crowd model. I think when it comes
   to the driving experience, getting from point A to B is a similar experience
   for all. Therefore, gathering those experiences on a platform like Waze
   sounds like a good idea. 

2. I was somewhere along the backroads and Google maps decides to fail me.
   Instead of using a handy dandy map, I trusting Google's navitation and it's
   dependence on good cellular service caused it to fail me. This has not
   changed my behavior because there appears to be too much work involved in
   utilizing a map. Understanding your location in real time in relation to
   your destination is too valuable. 

3. Staying away from algorithmic confirmation bias is one method. This can be
   done by staying away from social medias altogether. It seems like any post
   has the potential to perpetuate confirmation bias in some way. When it comes
   to the obvious ones, I'll see it and have a reactive response toward it but
   then do nothing after that. I feel like my reactive response isn't really up
   to me and the best thing I can do is not be swayed by anything other than my
   intentional "good-willed" decisions. 

Day 19
------
1. * This makes me feel like technology is changing everything, includng the
     way children play.
   * I wouldn't say it's unnessary. I'd say technology isn't going anywhere, so
     preparing children to feel comfortable around it is where the world is
     heading.
   * Advantage: 1. No more small physical items to keep track of. It's all digital
     and limitless. 2. Children learn to feel comfortable around something that
     will be a part of their everyday life. 
     Disadvantage: 1. Children begin using technology frequently, and in ways
     that don't grow their cognitive abilities. Doing mindless activities. 2.
     The computer version of a board game is always going to require more money
     and reasources than the physical versions, so accessibility would be a
     problem.

2. One of the most valid Luddite criticisms is the idea that technology pathes
   the way for more problems, like a slippery slope. You want an apple watch to
   use a new feature that comes with the latest iPhone. One of the least
   worrisome is technology's ability to replace the workforces. I acknowledge
   the problems that come with displacing people in this way, but I just think
   humans aren't meant to do the things the same way forever. Years from now we
   are going to be on a level we can't fathom right now. 

3. A concern I have is checking my phone for no gain. 2 minutes or 20, I wish
   I didn't just look through something on my phone and come out with
   no growth. 

4. I experience digital dementia when I realize I don't know my mom's number by
   memory. I feel like I don't need to have the number memorized when it's on
   my phone, but I also feel like I'm betraying her.

Day 20
------
1. If my bill was somehow getting paid, I don't think I would question it
   initially, or even the second time. I definitely wouldn't use this glitch in
   the matrix for lavish personal experiences, like the Australian couple did.
   I think the protocol should be, if someone was being phased negatively by
   the glitch, they should report it and the person benefitting from it should
   be honest about the situation. If they took advantage and went crazy, they
   should be punished for having that mindset. However, if they just let it
   happen and didn't report but also didn't exploit, they should be able to help
   sort out the situation. Pay back if they need to which won't be anything
   crazy if there was no exploiting.

2. I think it's devastating. A single software glitch had such a negative
   impact on some people's livelihood. If the scores were reported higher than
   reality, I do not think the error would have been discovered. People
   actually would have been rewarded for this. When things are good, I think
   people pay less attention to why are things good and tend to ask less
   questions. It would take a teacher or teachers who really care about the
   success of students to dig deeper into the scores and I think that's a lot
   to ask of someone who already does so much for others/their students.

3. Design considerations:
   * Must be intuitive, people need to easily be able to vote
   * Must be secure, should not have vulnerabilities that could jeopardize the
     integrety of the votes. 
   * The design of the webste should not encourage the user to do anything in
     particular. Everything about the site should be neutral.

   Pros:
   * It's accessible to people, convenient
   * Removes the need for physical labor
   Cons:
   * Not everyone has internet access, so it'd be inaccessible to those people
   * It can be hacked and tampered with. 

   Overall, I think it's a good idea, but extremely hard to execute. People
   need to be extremely thoughtful and meticulous and if that can be guaranteed
   then I think it should happen. 
